[About]
    What you get here is a boring look at a few billiard balls sitting on a flat green
    surface (a pool table) along with some controls that let you modify what's displayed,
    move the balls up and down the table, or shift one of the balls slightly from left to
    right. Its only purpose is to let you visualize aspects of aiming in pool that might
    be difficult or impossible to replicate on a real pool table with opaque balls.

    This program is based on a primitive (J3D based) version that I wrote after I retired
    from AT&T in 2012. I enjoy pool and programming, so at that time a 3D pool aiming demo
    seemed like an interesting project. I got far enough with that clunky old program
    to notice a few things that I believe helped me with aiming, but rather than sharing
    my conclusions I thought a polished up browser-based implementation of that program
    would be more valuable. That way you can run the program and make up your own mind.

    This version was a collaboration between me (Richard Drechsler) and Google Gemini 3.5
    Flash that was built using Three.js and an HTML5 Canvas.

[Balls]
Cue Ball (CB)
    The <span style="color: #2244ff; font-weight: bold;">blue ball</span> that moves along
    the Center Line until it collides with the Object Ball, which happens when its center
    reaches the center of the Ghost Ball.

    It can be moved along the Center Line using the CB Position slider or by dragging the
    ball vertically with the cursor.

Object Ball (OB)
    The <span style="color: #cc2222; font-weight: bold;">red ball</span> that is hit by
    the Cue Ball to determine the shot direction. Selecting the "Pocket Line" checkbox
    draws a line that shows you that direction.

    It can be moved parallel to the Center Line using the OB Position slider or by dragging
    the ball vertically. Its placement relative to the Ghost Ball can be adjusted using
    the "Shot Angle" slider or by horizontal motion of the cursor during a drag that began
    with the SHIFT key pressed.

Ghost Ball (GB)
    The <span style="color: #aaaaaa; font-weight: bold;">gray ball</span> that's always
    positioned on the Center Line next to the Object Ball. It's an imaginary ball that's
    often used to explain aiming in pool, particularly to new players.

    Movement constraints prevent the Cue Ball's center from advancing past the center
    of the Ghost Ball.

Note
    Two letter abbreviations shown in parentheses above are used to label some of the
    GUI components and are referenced throughout this documentation.

[Lines]
Center Line
    The <span style="color: #ffffff; font-weight: bold;">white line</span> that connects
    the center of the Cue Ball to the center of the Ghost Ball. Movement of the Cue Ball
    up and down the table is locked onto this line.

    Selecting the "Extended" checkbox extends both ends of this line, primarily to help
    you notice when this line intersects the Object Ball.

Contact Line
    The <span style="color: #ffaa00; font-weight: bold;">orange line</span> that connects
    the contact point on the Object Ball to the contact point on the Cue Ball. Those two
    points coincide when the collision happens, so when you see the orange Contact Line
    and the white Center Line you can be sure you're looking at parallel lines.

    This line splits the Cue Ball and Object Ball into matching pairs of larger and smaller
    spherical pieces. Selecting the "Caps" checkbox paints the two smaller matching pieces
    orange.

Pocket Line
    The <span style="color: #00ff41; font-weight: bold;">green line</span> that connects
    the center of the Ghost Ball to the center of the Object Ball. This line represents the
    direction the Object Ball travels after a collision with the Cue Ball. Both ends of this
    line are extended to make sure that direction is always visible.

    Selecting the "Cloned" checkbox draws a parallel copy of this line through the center
    of the Cue Ball.

[Sliders]
Shot Angle
    This slider adjusts the direction that the Object Ball would travel in a world with no
    complications (like friction) after a collision with the Cue Ball. It's visible as the
    small angle between the Pocket Line and the Extended Center Line.

Position
    A pair of sliders that you can use to move the Cue Ball and the Object Ball. Motion of
    either one stops when the Cue Ball and Ghost Ball share the same point as their center.

Camera
    A pair of sliders that you can use to move the two cameras. In the Top View moving the
    camera Down or Up zooms in or out, while moving it Left or Right isn't allowed. In the
    Aim View the camera gives you the player's perspective and both sliders are enabled.

Transparency
    Sliders that let you adjust the transparency of the Cue Ball, Object Ball, and Ghost
    Ball. Initially the Cue Ball and Object Ball are opaque and the Ghost Ball is visible
    but mostly transparent.

Note
    Sliders respond to the mouse wheel, and the rotation direction of the wheel moves all
    of them in the same direction.

[Views]
Top View
    A birds-eye view from directly above the table. The mouse wheel can be used to move the
    camera up and down (relative to the table), exactly the way it's done using the Camera
    slider. In this view the Left/Right Camera is disabled.

    The Cue Ball and the Object Ball can be dragged up and down the table. The Shot Angle
    can be adjusted by horizontal motion of the cursor during a drag of the Object Ball
    that began with the SHIFT key pressed.

Aim View
    A view from the player's perspective that by default looks down the line of the shot.
    The mouse wheel can be used to move the camera up and down (relative to the table),
    exactly the way it's done using the Camera slider. In this view the Left/Right Camera
    slider is active and can be used to make small horizontal adjustments to the position
    of the camera.

    The Cue Ball and the Object Ball can be dragged up and down the table. The Shot Angle
    can be adjusted by horizontal motion of the cursor during a drag of the Object Ball
    that began with the SHIFT key pressed.

View Selector
    The active view can be changed using the dropdown menu that's positioned in the center
    of the bottom bar. Each mouse wheel click, while the cursor hovers over the dropdown
    menu, flips the active view.

[Issues]
Platforms
    This application runs in a browser, but it was written assuming a decent size screen
    and a mouse (with a wheel) were always available. It uses your browser's User-Agent
    string to identify platforms that might not work well, but it's a flawed test. For
    the best results, use a desktop or laptop with a mouse that has a wheel.

iPads
    Even though there are issues, we decided not to reject iPads. You currently can't drag
    the Cue Ball or the Object Ball, but all of the sliders in the left panel work.

Aim View Drag
    Right now, dragging the Object Ball in the Aim View doesn't work as well as we would
    like. It's something that eventually may be addressed, but for now we recommend using
    the OB Position slider if you want more predictable behavior.

